the last class I used salon and was 76
100 which is reading and writing in an
academic context which is a writing
class for first year second language
writing students we used classroom salon
in in math classes specifically this
year as they mode of problem solving in
cooperative learning so when I went in
the first time to teach the class
what classroom salon was all about I
explained it in terms that I knew they
would understand it's similar to
Facebook all of a sudden there was
cheering and excitement and a lot of
questions can we talk to each other what
can we say when can we talk and so all
of a sudden it reached their world and
they were excited by it
I can suddenly make the work of the
class a social event and that students
love that you know they want to know
that they're connecting with people
while they're doing their work that
makes it feel more collaborative more
meaningful it increases the visibility
of our students in the class suddenly
their contributions are just popping up
everywhere right and on the screen and
then in the class and you see it on
their faces even your quiet ones because
they've done the work the night before
they were able to highlight the
important information discuss why they
thought this was important and then
discuss and debate possible solutions or
possible equations that they could come
up with and and the goal of a lot of
class time is to have this discussion
that's going to take them to
higher-order thinking but a lot of times
we can't achieve that in class when
we're just hearing from students for the
first time about the reading on class
day so if they do some work on the
reading before they come to class
they're in a better position to move
into say analysis to move beyond
comprehension to move toward analysis I
can get them to focus on particular
areas so that they've already covered
that kind of as a group because the tool
allows me to highlight very small pieces
of text not just global things I can get
them to think about language choices in
a way that I've never been able to do
before
I was able to
monitor the students discussion and
clear up misconceptions as needed
provide scaffolding or support as
necessary and that's probably what I've
noticed is the strongest feature that I
would say is good not just for teaching
a writing class or an English class but
it's good for any class that uses
reading and what class doesn't use
reading we were sure to include
unnecessary information so that they
would have to really read the text and
differentiate between the things that
they needed the things that they wanted
to throw away and this is where the
highlighting came into play there is
something to be said for the fact that
they know that when they come into class
I am gonna open up a document that is
going to show whether or not they paid
attention to it the night before what we
really were able to do through this
software which we couldn't do before is
we were able to collaborate with another
School District for the first time we
couldn't meet before school or after
school so we knew that an online
solution would be our best option
so classroom salon became that
communication tool that linked these two
districts together I surely believe that
students go beyond skimming when they
use salon and I can't guarantee that's
happening in the same way when we're not
using it I was able to see what my
students were thinking and how they were
verbalizing this to one another and I
take student work and I upload that and
again making student work more visible
so that they see that their work is an
important text just like one that was
printed in the New York Times when you
make students more visible in the class
you suddenly have something that's alive
they comment so much better on each
other's work because we use salon there
they seem to be more honest in their
commenting the best peer reviews I've
ever had have come from the last class
this coming here weird
to be exploring using classroom salon in
science class in middle school as well
as the art class and to get some
collaborative discussions and we're also
investigating special ed with kind of a
co-teaching opportunity with language
arts and special ed students and the
regular classroom so we think that it
has some real valuable opportunities for
us